=== URL: https://docs.ipfdev.co.uk/core/IPF_RELEASE_2024.3.0/gui-modules/user-docs/bank-filtering.html ===
Bank Filtering
What is Bank Filtering?
The Bank Filtering setting gives operators the ability to configure filters which assist with identifying payments that should be rejected or need to be routed for manual intervention. This feature is intended for short-term restriction of payments.
Search Screen
Search Identifiers
The operator will be able to enter data into any one of the searchable fields and once they click search, all settings that meet the search criteria will be displayed in a table.
Type
Description
Rule Name
The name of the rule.
Rule ID
The ID associated with the rule.
This will be autogenerated upon creation of the setting.
Agent ID
The identifier for the Agent associated with the rule.
Direction
Creditor, Debtor or Both
Severity
The severity of the rule. i.e. 1-10
Status
The status that the rule is in. i.e. Active
BIC
Bank Identifier Code
NCC
National Clearing Code
NCC Country
The country associated with the NCC
When NCC has been provided, it is mandatory to also provide NCC Country.
Country
ISO2022 country.
This field must be used when searching for country wide rules.
Currency
i.e EURO
Dates
Operators will also be able to refine the search by utilising the dates picker to provide from and to dates.
Search Results
Once the operator clicks the search button, they will be presented with the relevant results. Operators can further filter results by selecting the appropriate tab.
As a default, once an operator clicks the search button, the Results tab will be selected.
The rows can be resized and rearranged to help with readability of the content.
Create Bank Filter Rule
To create a new bank filter rule, operators can click on the 'Create' button. This will present a form which the operator can populate with the required information before clicking the 'Create' button to send the new setting for approval.
Approving a Bank Filter Rule
Clicking on the row of the rule, that requires approval, within the search results table will navigate to the overview screen for the selected setting.
Upon selecting either the Approve or Reject button, the operator will be presented with a pop-up to confirm the chosen option.
Approve
Reject
Modify a Bank Filter Rule
To modify an existing BIC, Bank and Currency filter, operators can click on the Modify/Edit button. This will allow the operator to edit the data associated with the rule.
Deleting a Bank Filter Rule
To delete an existing filter, operators can click on the 'bin' icon found against each row within the search results table.
As mentioned above, the functionality available to a user will be determined by their permissions and all modifications to a setting will have to undergo approval.
Generic Processing Settings
Version Information
