=== URL: https://docs.ipfdev.co.uk/core/IPF_RELEASE_2024.3.0/dynamic-settings/home.html ===
Dynamic Processing Settings
Background
Dynamic Processing Settings provides a platform to manage configurable settings and their lifecycle. This platform provides for defining, maintaining and exposing configurable settings that can be referenced from
an external application such as IPF.
The initial use case which has been used to prove out the framework in the first instance is
CSM Reachability
.
High Level Project Structure
The following diagram shows an example of the high level structure of components involved in Dynamic Processing Settings.
Platform Projects:
Project
Description
file-ingestion-service
Contains the required infrastructure to consume settings from a source e.g. a file and propagate the consumed settings through to the setting management API via a Process Manager.
setting-domain
Contains generic setting domain and model objects e.g. CreateSetting, UpdateSetting, Setting
setting-management
Contains the API framework which is used to manage the settings (CRUD API)
setting-workflow
Contains the MPS generated artefacts to support lifecycle management via Event Sourced Behaviours
setting-catalogue
Specific settings which have been defined to be managed by the Dynamic Processing Settings framework. Contains supporting infrastructure such as read side models and settings definitions
CSM Reachability Solution Projects:
The CSM Reachability Solution leverages the Platform Projects and defines additional solution specific projects
Project
Description
csm-reachability
Pulls in the relevant platform projects, and contains the validate csm reachability business service, which invokes the setting management APIs in order to determine CSM reachability given a specific input
csm-reachability-app
Wrapper project which pulls in all the relevant modules and runs as a single sprint boot application. It also builds a docker image of the same.
csm-reachability-service
Contains the orchestration service - csm-reachability-service
csm-reachability-setting-management
Leverages setting-management and specific setting definitions relevant to the CSM Reachability Solution
participant-file-handling
Leverages file-ingestion-service and specific setting definitions relevant to the CSM Reachability Solution
csm-reachability-e2e-test
Verifies the CSM Reachability App assembles and runs successfully as a docker image
Documentation
How to create a project based on Dynamic Settings
-
An overview of modules needed to assemble an application built on top of dynamic-settings-workflow
Creating a Setting
- Example of adding a setting to the dynamic processing settings framework
Workflow Documentation
- An overview of all the concepts relating to the dynamic settings workflow
Scheduling Your First Job
Features
