=== URL: https://docs.ipfdev.co.uk/services/IPF_RELEASE_2024.3.0/sepadd-csm-service/features/business-day-calculation.html ===
Business Day Calculation
The SEPA Direct Debit Core scheme only allows settlement on TARGET Business Days. TARGET Business Days are defined as below (reference: EBA Clearing STEP2 SEPA Services Functional Description Glossary)
A T2-RTGS Day is a day on which the settlement mechanism operates. An Interbank Settlement can only take place on a T2-RTGS day. Saturdays and Sundays are Non-T2-RTGS days (also known as T2-RTGS holidays). In addition, the following days are T2-RTGS holidays:
1 January (New Year’s Day)
Good Friday
Easter Monday
1 May (Labour Day)
25 December (Christmas Day)
26 December
Setup
The SEPA DD STEP2 scheme pack utilises the
Working Days Service
for settlement date calculations and to determine working/non-working days.  In order to correctly process transactions the
Working Days Service
should be setup with the above dates as non-working days. There are two calendars used to define non-working days:
Annual Calendar - for days which fall on the same date every year and weekends
Holiday Calendar - for days which don’t fall on the same date each year e.g. Easter
Initial setup of the
Working Days Service
is required prior to processing transactions. The above holidays should be setup with a single
calendarId
that matches the same as the property below (default is
target2
- see linked
Working Days Service
documentation for more details on defining calendar settings).
The above calendars are dynamic processing settings and can be managed (created/updated etc) via the
Working Days Service Setting Management API
Once, the above holidays have been configured in the
Working Days Service
the below properties need to be configured in the SEPA DD Scheme Pack
In addition to configuring the
Working Days Service
, the SEPA DD scheme pack also needs to be configured to connect to the
Working Days Service
. For more details, please refer to the
Standalone Configuration
here
The following property also needs configuring so the SEPA DD scheme pack knows which calendar to lookup from the working days service to perform business date calculations and what cutoff is applicable.
Property Name
Type
Comment
Default
ipf.csm.sepa-dd.lac.holiday-calendar
String
This should correspond to the
calendarId
used to define the non-working days above in the
Working Days Service
target2
Validations
Correlation Store
