=== URL: https://docs.ipfdev.co.uk/guides/IPF_RELEASE_2024.3.0/tutorials/ba_step_9.html ===
Step 9 - Add Response Codes
Introduction to Step 9
In this step you will be creating a set of response codes to more accurately reflect the kind of responses you could receive.
In this scenario, assume that the debtor agent’s accounting system (external domain) supplies a number of different responses, rather than the simple 'AcceptOrReject' response that you have used up to now.
Three different responses are possible in this use case:
Account Valid
Account Invalid
Account Blocked
Create a Response Code Library
First let’s create a response code library to house your new response codes.
From the left menu right click on the model, press New>v2Flo>Response Code Library
Add Response Code Sets to the Library
Now you can add a set of response codes, followed by the individual codes.
Click 'Add Response Code Set'
Name the set 'Account Verification Response Codes'
Click 'Add Response Code'
Add the three codes, with a description
For the 'Account Invalid' and 'Account Blocked' codes, check the 'Is Failure' box
The 'Is Failure' column is use to denote whether the reason code results in a rejection, or continues the flow.
If the 'Is Failure' is selected then the Response Code will appear on the aggregate and can be made available for any messages that require the rejection reason code.
Update the Debtor Account System Request
Now you have created a response code set, then you can replace the set you originally set up in the 'Debtor Account Validation Request'.
Double click 'Debtor Agent’s Accounting System' external domain on the left menu
In the 'Responses' column place the cursor after 'Response Codes'
Press
Ctrl
+
Space
and select the new response code set you have just created
Update Input Behaviour
Now you have three responses, rather than two, you need to update the input behaviour to tell the flow what to do in all three cases,
Double click the flow on the left menu
Find 'Input Behaviour'
You will see that some of the input are now underlined red - this is because the response codes (AcceptOrReject) are no longer valid for that response, they have been replaced by the new code set
Replace accepted and rejected response codes with the new codes and add the new input behaviours using the 'Add Input Behaviour' button.
Your list of responses are probably in an order that don’t make sense.  Use the keyboard shortcut
Ctrl
+
Shift
+
up
/
Ctrl
+
Shift
+
up/down
to move the rows around to make it look how you want it to.
Your final input behaviour table should look something like this.
Would you ever actually implement like this?
No you probably wouldn’t - this is just an example for the purposes of a tutorial.  In reality you would keep Accept or Reject as the response code set, since the new codes only actually have 2 outcomes - pass or fail - so why introduce the complexity of adding new input behaviours that achieve nothing new?
Step 8 - Add a decision
Step 10 - Add a Subflow
