=== URL: https://docs.ipfdev.co.uk/reference/IPF_RELEASE_2024.3.0/release/IPF-2023-1-0/release-IPF-2023-1-0.html ===
Release Notes for IPF-2023.1.0
This page details everything required to get going on IPF Release 2023.1.0 made available on 21st April 2023.
Details
Binaries
The core binaries are available from
IPF-Releases
.
The lightbend cinnamon binaries are available from
IPF Lightbend
.
Archetype
The latest version of the archetype is 1.7.0
Developer App
The latest version of the developer app is 1.0.29
Features and Changes
Bulker
MVP release of IPF Bulker functionality
The IPF Bulker provides the functionality to store a collection of data elements in a structured file format. It contains the functionality to accept individual transactions and at some point bring these together as a Bulk and create an output.
More information on the adapters available for the Bulker can be found in the
Bulker Developer documentation
.
Debulker
MVP release of IPF Debulker functionality
The IPF Debulker provides functionality to take a bulk of payments from a file and split the bulk into individual components, which can then be processed as individual payment items.
More information on the adapters available for the Debulker can be found in the
Debulker Developer documentation
.
Please also see the
Debulker Tutorial
.
More detailed documentation for both the Bulker and Debulker is due end of April 2023.
Reachability SEPA
Added STEP2 SCT participant file loader
Logical unique key for participants modified to allow importing multiple versions of the participant with different time periods (to support future dated payments)
Participant reachability validation can be called for future dates
Added bicdir2018 setting and file loader
Added validate BIC API
Added exclusion list setting and file loader
Exclusion list settings are now used in IBAN deconstruct to validate if an IBAN is invalid based on the national id
Added paymentTypeAllow fields for participants settings
Changed validate-participate logic to not flag participants as not reachable when paymentTypeAllowedList contains the value "TEC"
Ibanplus loader can handle delta files
Added new fields on csm agent currency settings
GUI
Support for the linking and searching of related bulks , batch and transaction summaries both in ODS and the UI.
Note this does not support the viewing of a large original file
Update UI summary and details screen based on internal and client feedback.
This moved away from transaction record centric approach of V1 to a flow centric and summary view for v2
Providing the mechanism to mandate and validate processing entity in the UI.
Including a change to the authentication model to have roles per processing entity/tenant
General stability improvements and bugs raised
Migration Steps for IPF-2023.2.0.2
Migration Steps for IPF-2023.1.0
