=== URL: https://docs.ipfdev.co.uk/services/IPF_RELEASE_2024.3.0/csm-reachability/features/dynamic-configurations/industry-data/csm-participant/csm-participant.html ===
CSM Participant
CSM Participant is a dynamic configuration used for registering the membership / participation of entities to an Agent. The dynamic configuration has a generic structure that loads the membership information provided by the Industry schemes.
The industry data is loaded into CSM Participant Dynamic Configuration through file ingestion applications provided by IPF. The ingestion implementation provides mapping of attributes from the industry source files into CSM Participant record attributes as defined by IPF.
CSM Participant records are used by CSM Reachability to confirm the participation of counterparties for given CSM Agent and hence the reachability of counterparties through the CSM Agent.
IPF supports below industry file ingestion into CSM Participants:
Sr. No.
Payment Scheme
Industry Data File
Industry Source
File Format
File Type (Full / Delta)
1
RT1 SEPA INST
SCI Participant Routing Table
EBA
TXT
Full
2
RT1 SEPA INST
SCI Addressable PSP Routing Table
EBA
TXT
FULL
3
TIPS SEPA INST
TIPS Directory
EUROSYSTEM (CRDM)
XML
FULL
4
STEP2 SEPA SCT
SCT Direct Participant Routing Table
EBA
TXT
FULL
5
STEP2 SEPA SCT
SCT Reachable BIC Routing Table
EBA
TXT
FULL
6
SIC, EuroSIC
Bank Master 3.0
SIX
JSON
FULL
7
STET
STET Agreement Export File
STET
XML
FULL
It is important to note that every industry data source may follow a separate format. IPF defines the mapping of the attributes provided by the industry data into CSM Participant to ensure the participation check is performed in a consistent way across different industry schemes.
As and when more schemes are supported on IPF, the ingestion of the membership files provided by their respective providers will be implemented and details added here.
It is possible for IPF clients to request extending CSM Participant ingestion support for a specific scheme membership file that is not already on the list and this could be introduced subject to licensing agreements.
It is also possible for Client implementations to define their own custom membership ingestion for a direct account agent (not a clearing scheme) and define mapping into CSM Participant dynamic configuration. This will be a client specific implementation using IPF and will not be available as standard on IPF Core.
All industry file ingestions supported on CSM Participants dynamic configurations are "Full Files". This means only full extract as generated by the industry sources are supported on IPF even if the industry sources provide "Delta" (or incremental files). This is to avoid a risk of issues in processing (or content) of one delta file getting carried forward to subsequent delta files, thus causing available membership data on IPF to be incorrect for Payments reachability checks. It is recommended that client implementations using IPF for CSM Reachability subscribe to the "FULL" versions of membership data provided by Industry sources.
CSM Participant Dynamic Configuration Structure
Below table provides information about different attributes supported on CSM Participant dynamic configuration. for more information on the format and optionality of the attributes, please refer to the DPS Setting management API specs for the dynamic configuration.
CSM Participant Directory property
Description
csmAgentId
Identifier of CSM Agent. This CSM Agent Id must be the same as the CSM Agent Id assigned on the Agent Settings under Participation Details.
csmParticipantIdentifier
The identifier of the participant entity to the CSM Agent. This identifier can be of different types based on the CSM Agents. The information about the identifiers used by the Agents is recorded on Agent Settings under Participation Details section.
participantName
Name of the participant entity to the CSM Agent.
participantType
Type of participant, 'DIRECT' or 'INDIRECT'.
activeFromDate
The date from which the entity will be / has been an active participant to the CSM Agent.
In some cases, an entity can have two records for on CSM Participants ( e.g. where a participant is moving from being indirect participant to direct participant). Both the records will have separate active from dates and the reachability requests will choose the record active at the time of the reachability check (or as of the time specified on reachability request)
activeToDate
The date up to which the entity will be a participant to the CSM Agent. The date is taken into account when performing reachability check to ensure entities that have past activeToDate are not deemed reachable.
routingBIC
The routing BIC used by the entity. The routing BIC is not used for reachability purposes, but will be available on CSM Participant records for the client implementation flows to use for enriching the payments for correct use of routing BIC.
In case of indirect participant, the routing BIC may be BIC of related direct participant.
paymentTypeAllowedList
A list of payment types which are allowed. The payment types allowed information is not available against every CSM Agent and is loaded to CSM Participant records where provided by the Industry source. (e.g. in case of STEP2, the payment type list can include the AOS subscription of the participants).
domicileAddress
Domicile address of the CSM Participant as provided by the Industry source.
participantCity
City where the participant is officially registered
postalCode
Postal code of the Participant, as provided by Industry data source.
postalAddress
Postal address of the Participant, as provided by Industry data source.
participantCountry
Country where the participant is officially registered
industryFields
Industry Fields is a collection of additional fields from the industry source files that can be loaded into CSM Participant over and above standard CSM Participant definition. The Industry fields are not loaded for every industry source and when loaded, will follow a separate schema for every source as per the mapping definitions specific to the source. (Only supported for SIC specific loads)
CSM Participant Directory Mappings
CSM Participants is a generic data structure used for recording memberships across a range of CSM Agents and corresponding industry sources. The data provided by each industry sources is mapped into the generic dynamic configuration so membership checks are performed against each CSM Agent in a consistent way.
Below pages provide the mapping definitions across industry sources supported on CSM Reachability.
The documentation does not provide the specifications of the industry data files themselves and only the properties that are loaded into CSM Participant are documented. For detailed specs of the industry data files for different sources, please refer to the documentation provided by respective industry source of the file.
EBA RT1 SEPA INST - Routing Tables Mapping
EBA STEP2 Routing Tables - Mapping
TIPS SEPA Inst Directory Mapping
SIX Bank Master 3.0 Mapping
STET Agreement Exports File Mapping
When a custom CSM Participant load is needed by a client implementation, similar mapping will need to be defined by client implementation teams and implemented so the participation check can be performed by CSM Reachability service in a consistent way. Refer
Creating a Custom Settings Ingester
page for steps involved.
Ingestion from S3 Bucket
EBA RT1 SEPA INST - Routing Tables Mapping
